I'm sure you've all seen the meme. We're
6 months away from AI taking our jobs as
developers forever. And while this is a
meme that we've been saying for years,
I'm starting to really feel it. There
have just been so many signals that
things are actually changing now. From
baby Keem using OpenClaw to the top
G-Talking [__] on it to Cloudflare
rewriting Nex.js JS in a week using AI
to CEOs that barely even code building
whole apps from scratch cloning
billion-dollar companies in just a few
days to Jack the original CEO of Twitter
laying off 40% of his employees at Block
even though they're profitable and
growing. This is this is terrifying. We
are there now. I didn't know what this
would look like or how it would feel,
but it's happening now. It's very clear
it is happening now. And I have a lot of
thoughts about that. Mostly in a very
privileged position here where at least
by the looks of it, media doesn't seem
to be going anywhere. But that doesn't
mean I don't talk to engineers every day
and that I don't have hundreds of y'all
in my DMs and talking to me across every
possible imaginable method telling me
just how screwed things are right now.
And there is hope. There are places this
can go that are good. But right now, the
dev world is about to change. Normally,
I would do a joke here about how I need
ads because I'm not getting paid to
write code anymore. But honestly, things
are scary enough right now. It feels a
bit inappropriate. So, just know I have
to get my team paid. So, we'll do a
quick break and then we'll dive in.
Going to be real with you guys. I'm vibe
coding a bit close to the sun lately.
We're shipping so much code for all the
projects we're working on and I would
probably be shipping a lot more bugs if
today's sponsor wasn't a thing. Code
Rabbit has reviewed pretty much every
line of code I've written in the past
few months and it has prevented so many
bugs from shipping. I've tried all of
these AI code review tools with my team
and this is the one my team chooses
every single time. And I get why. It
seems to just understand these complex
code bases better than other tools,
especially once you've used it for a bit
because it has a good memory tool where
it learns when you give it feedback. If
you tell it, hey, this thing doesn't
matter. It remembers and it won't
comment on it in the future, which makes
it really easy to reduce the noise and
focus in on the signal. For a good
example of that signal, here's a mistake
that I never would have made in the good
old days of handwriting code that an
agent will gladly do. This directory
should have been git ignored because
it's a build directory, but somehow it
snuck in here. I mean, I know how the
agent had put it in the git ignore and
now it's my problem. Being that this PR
was like 3,000 lines of code, there's no
world in which I would have bothered to
read it well enough to catch this type
of mistake. But Code Rabbit's more than
happy to do that. Calling this out is a
major potential issue and that this is a
build directory that should have been
ignored. Not only does it tell you
exactly what's wrong, it gives you a
prompt that you can copy paste, which is
exactly what I did. I actually went
through and found all of the issues that
I agreed with in this feedback. Copy
pasted the prompts, had them all fixed,
and then we shipped. This is a big
change in a real big repo, too. I'm
working on a fun project they'll have
more details on soon, I promise. That
has everything from Rust and Swift code
to TypeScript and Electron. So, uh, case
in point, it's a rough codebase to work
in, and I swear Code Rabbit's the only
thing that seems to actually understand.
It even caught a pretty novel bug with
async cleanup operations with how we're
abusing promises a little bit for our
actual startup script that I don't think
any other tool came close to catching.
Whether or not you're using AI for code,
you should absolutely use it for code
review. If you're somehow not doing it
yet, fix that today at soyv.link/code
rabbit. It's literally just two clicks.
There's a lot going on in the industry
and I think this post from Jack is going
to be a really good place to start from.
Generally speaking, Jack tends to be a
decent bit ahead of market trends at the
very least 6 months to two years ahead
overall. And it is incredibly rare for a
company to do mass layoffs like this
when they are currently in the process
of growing and their revenue is going up
and their profits are increasing. I have
a lot of faith in Jack personally and I
understand why he did this. It is his
ultimate responsibility to make his
business as successful as possible and
as likely to succeed as possible. And
right now there's a real risk of smaller
teams moving faster and overtaking your
position for cheaper. It's a silly
example here, but I do want to talk
about the product I just put out, lawn.
I'm not here to try and sell this to you
guys. The MR on it's like $350. It's not
going to make real money. It's probably
going to lose money, but it's a good
example of where things are going. Lawn
is an alternative to Frame.io. Frame.io
IO is a video review platform kind of
like doing code reviews and PRs but for
video teams. It's how we have managed
our video pipeline for a while. Whenever
my editor FaZe finishes an edit, he
would upload it onto Frame so that my
team could review it. Whenever we have a
new ad spot that needs to be approved by
a brand, we put that up on Frame for
them to approve. And every single time
we just were watching it crumble. I
swear I never went to frame.io without
having to resign in cuz they broke off
all the time. The share links were an
absolute mess. I never knew when
something got to one of the companies we
were working with if they had responded
or not. It was just a rough time. So I
decided to make my own alternative
largely just to explore the space and
play around with these AI dev tools. I
really didn't think we would ship this.
I really didn't. But it just kept going.
And I didn't sit and work on this
full-time. Obviously I'm very busy. I
have a company to run. I have a lot of
other product that we're shipping. I
have a channel to run. I employ like 15
people across all these surfaces. I
don't have time to sit there and code
for eight hours a day. If I did, I would
guess this product would have taken me
about a month or two to make and then a
couple more months to refine and get all
the core pieces in properly. I was able
to build it in 2 weeks. I was able to
build it in two weeks in the background
as I did other things. That's crazy. I
have not written a single line of code
in this project. I've read a little bit
of it. I structured a bunch of APIs and
like core application logic stuff with
the AI where I described how it should
be structured, watched it write a
proposal like that looks good, go use
that everywhere. But I didn't write the
code and it's not bad code. For proof, I
actually decided to open source it,
which is a weird decision for a bunch of
reasons, but the main one that I think
makes it so strange is that it makes it
easy to clone and go build your own. So,
it's already low revenue, but if
somebody wants to be really cheap, they
can go clone it themselves and host it,
and then I get no revenue for it. But to
be frank, that could have happened
anyways. And that's what's so crazy.
Ideas haven't been valuable for a long
time. And I say that all the time. Ideas
are cheap. Somehow ideas got more and
less valuable at the same time. where
dropping something novel and coming up
with a good idea is really powerful now
because the speed you can go from idea
to usable product has never been lower.
But it also means cloning someone else's
product and idea is way more trivial
than it's ever been. You might look at
this and think, well video review can't
be that big a market. Like you're only
making what 350 a month isn't $350 a
month. Well Frame.io
got acquired by Adobe in 2021 for $1.3
billion.
It took them years to build 1.3 bill and
I was able to replicate the majority of
the functionality part-time in an app
that genuinely feels better to use in 2
weeks. Everything has changed. I don't
care about your silly examples of
co-pilot screwing up in a giant C
codebase because I can rewrite that
codebase in different tech in a week.
Everything is different now. And it's
not even slop. Like, yeah, the whole
thing's vibe coded. Even the UI, even
the background image, all AI generated,
but once you start using it, it feels
great. Things fly. I'm real time right
now. I'm going to click right now.
Instantly loads. I'm going to click this
video. Instantly loads. The video stream
has to take a sec to start cuz streaming
video is hard. I go back to the team
page. Instant. Instant. Instant. Leave a
comment. Hit the send. instantly
appears. It flies. I had to come up with
some specific data loading patterns to
make it feel so good around pre-warming
and subscriptions on hover. But once I
had established that pattern and
mentioned it in the agent MD, it kind of
just took care of itself. Like it hit
everything in the codebase and once or
twice it would miss a link. Like for a
bit it missed this T3 team link up here
and I told it, hey, one of the links in
the topnav doesn't have pre-warming
working. and it went and found that and
fixed it. And it just feels great to
use. Like, this is a product that is
genuinely more joyful to use than the
thing that I'm paying lots of money for
that it's replacing. And this is the
worst it's ever going to be, guys. These
tools are going to keep getting better.
Building things like this is going to
keep getting easier. Sure, part of why
this feels so good is because I'm an
engineer with a long background in video
product that understands the restraints,
the requirements, and all the weird
things that you need to do this. But if
you asked the model what to do, it would
have given you at least like half of the
things that I said. Just for comparison,
here's the monstrosity that is frame.
I'm surprised it didn't make me do a
signin. Clicked edits. Takes forever to
load. Click a video. By default, when
you click a video, it goes into select
and not the video, which I love. You
have to double click it to get to it.
Also takes forever to load. Works. It's
fine, but things are not fast.
UX is really strange. There's too much
going on. And the folders are high
priority for some reason and the actual
videos I care about are too low
priority. I don't even really like
folders for this, but might not want
that in the future. Wouldn't even be
hard to here. I'll show you. You can see
most of the prompts I used for building
this here. Let's make a new thread.
Let's do some whisper flowing for this
just to show how absurdly easy these
things are. I want to add a folder style
structure for projects so that users can
optionally put given files inside of
folders. It should be easy to move a
file to a folder via drag and drop. And
it should be easy to see all of the
folders and open them and navigate the
hierarchy of what folder you are in.
Write up a plan for how we will
implement this and what the UX will look
like. And then we can implement soon
after. By the way, T3 Code, the app I'm
using for this, is another example of an
app that I and my team built because we
were unhappy with the alternatives and
it was easier to just build our own than
get the others fixed. I used to spend a
lot of time talking to companies trying
to convince them, hey, this features
brokered or hey, we need this thing
implemented. And now I don't even bother
half the time. Okay, usually I will once
or twice, but like one of the companies
building one of these style tools, one
of these GUIs for using the CLI, it had
a lot of random problems and we hit them
up about it. In particular, the codec
support was atrocious. And we kind of
got shrugged off and told, "Yeah, uh,
we're a cloud house. We don't really
care that much about codec support." And
that was the moment I decided to build
my own because it's not worth trying to
convince somebody when I can just out
build them now. It's insane. Like like
everything's changed from that alone.
Like a lot of my time used to be spent
trying to convince other products, other
founders, other leads at other companies
to build the things I need. Now I just
build it myself. And I can barely even
justify spending time coding cuz I got
way too much [__] going on. Yet here I
am with like over a dozen lawn threads
with a bunch more for quip slop that I
also vibe code on the side. shoe which I
built mostly in other things. Bunch of
T3 code stuff I was working on in T3
code. I'm building a lot. And whenever
something bothers me, I just go build
alternatives now. And that's crazy. And
that's me on an individual level. What's
much scarier is when you start thinking
about this on a company level, which is
what Jack is doing today. Should
probably talk about what Block is. Block
is the company that Jack made after
Twitter. They operate Square, Cash App,
Afterpay, Tidal, which is my beloved
music app. I still use Tidal for my
listening every single day. I'm going to
submit them some prompts that I want
them to implement ASAP. I love Tidal. I
hope that the Title team doesn't get hit
too hard with these layoffs. Bit Key,
which is a new one. I think it's a
crypto like hardware wallet. And then
Proto, which is some type of server rack
stuff. Not as familiar with those, but
Square and Cash App are slaughtering.
These two make a ton of money and fund
most of the business. Another thing
worth noting for most of these
businesses is they're not things you can
go reimplement. You're not going to just
go vibe code an alternative to Square,
Cash App, or Afterpay because these are
as much about the weird agreements and
process with financial companies as they
are the actual code that was written.
The code for all of these absolutely
could be rewritten in days and they
might even do that now themselves. But
the infrastructure, the partnerships,
the deals with the credit card
providers, all of that that can't be
remade. Same deal with title, the
negotiations they have done in order to
build up the library they have, the
payment structures and systems to pay
artists when their music is played.
those things. Also, their credit system
is insane. Like, they have the most
in-depth credits of any streaming
platform. That's partnerships and data
are not things you can replace via vibe
coding. You can replace the code, but
nothing else. So, anybody whose product
is built entirely on top of code,
they're a little bit screwed. Despite
knowing that as the CEO, like Jack knows
they aren't as displaceable due to the
nature of their product and the
partnerships and deals and space that
they are in. Despite all of that, he is
still choosing to make this decision.
And I'll give you my thoughts as to why
after we read what he says. Today, we're
making one of the hardest decisions in
the history of our company. We're
reducing our organization by nearly half
from over 10,000 people to just under
6,000. That means over 4,000 of you are
being asked to leave or you're entering
into consultation. I'll be straight
about what's happening, why, and what it
means for everyone. First off, if you're
one of the people affected, you'll
receive your salary for 20 weeks, plus
an additional week per year of tenure,
equity vested through the end of May, 6
months of healthcare, your corporate
devices, and $5,000 to put towards
whatever you need to help you in this
transition. If you're outside of the US,
you'll receive similar support, but
exact details are going to vary based on
local requirements. Yep, different
countries have different rules around
what layoffs entail and what offers
you're able to give employees as they
are let go. But this is actually a
really good offer. There's a lot of
little pieces here I like about it. The
20 weeks is a really good base starting
point. That's effectively five months of
salary. Gives you a lot of time to
figure things out. The additional week
per year of tenure is a huge assist to
people who have been there for 6 to 10
years. That's an additional couple
months of support. Very much like that.
So, they're rewarding employees that
have been there for a long time. They're
giving everybody a really solid buffer
here. Equity vested through the end of
May is another huge deal. Making sure
that people who are near an equity grant
can get it. If there's somebody whose
equity vests like June 3rd or so, I
would hope they're able to negotiate
with the company to do something to get
that through end of May is totally fine,
though. Six months of healthcare is
huge. This is one of the most annoying
things. When I quit Twitch, having to
fight Cobra to get health insurance was
one of the most annoying things I've
ever done in my life. It it radicalized
me. I'll talk a lot about that in the
future, but uh the TLDDR, my stance here
is that healthcare is so [__] in the
US that it's making the job market less
competitive. And I can make capitalist
arguments towards healthcare for all
because like that being healthcare being
tied to your job just makes everything
shitty for no reason. Obnoxious.
Anyways, corporate devices is another
huge one. For a lot of people, losing
the one computer you have is the worst
thing ever. I know so many people whose
only computer is the one they have from
work. So letting them keep it is a huge
deal for a ton of people. Just a big
stress relief. And similarly, the $5,000
of extra here is huge. Like if you're
making 300K a year, the 20 weeks is
going to give you a lot of money. But if
you're like a support person that's
doing 30K a year, your 20 weeks is only
going to be a few thousand. So an extra
5K on top is a huge benefit to people
who are lower income. So that's what I
like about this structure here. The
first part very good for people who are
high income. This part very good for
people who are long tenure. This part
very good for the people who have large
equity grants that are probably also
higher income. Six months of healthcare,
good for everyone, just makes it less
stressful to be out of the job and
between jobs. Corporate devices, huge,
especially for people who are lower
income. And the $5,000 put towards the
transition, again, very helpful for
people who are of lower income. It also
makes sense they call it the US part
here in particular because a lot of like
offshore support that might be hit by
this, for example, benefits greatly from
that. Also, saying everybody will be
notified today whether they're being
asked to leave, consult, or stay. I've
seen this done so wrong where people
didn't know what side they were on and
then the next day we're still stressed
and the demoralization over time was
horrifying. We're not making this
decision because we're in trouble. Our
business is strong. Gross profit
continues to grow. We continue to serve
more and more customers and
profitability is improving. But
something has changed. We're already
seeing that the intelligence tools we're
creating and using paired with smaller
and flatter teams are enabling a new way
of working which fundamentally changes
what it means to build and run a
company. and that's accelerating
rapidly. We'll talk more about this
paragraph in a little bit. I had two
options. Cut gradually over months or
years as the shift plays out or be
honest about where we are and act on it
now. I chose the latter. Repeated rounds
of cuts are destructive to morale to
focus and to the trust that customers
and shareholders place in our ability to
lead. I'd rather take a hard clear
action now and build from a position
that we believe in than manage a slow
reduction of people towards the same
outcome. A smaller company also gives us
the space to grow our business in the
right way on our own terms instead of
constantly reacting to market pressures.
Another really important sentence that
we'll get back to in a sec. A decision
at this scale carries risk, but so does
standing still. We've done a full review
to determine the roles and people we
require to reliably grow the business
from here. And we've pressure tested
these decisions from multiple angles. I
accept that we may have gotten some of
these wrong and we've built in
flexibility to account for that and do
the right thing for our customers. We're
not going to just disappear people from
Slack and email and pretend they were
never here. Communication channels will
stay open through Thursday evening so
everyone can say goodbye properly and
share whatever you wish. I'll also be
hosting a live video session to thank
everyone at 3:35 p.m. Pacific. I know
doing it this way might feel awkward.
I'd rather it feel awkward and human
than efficient and cold. I love this. I
When I left Twitch, I was in my goodbye
call when right at 5:00 p.m. on the dot,
they disabled my Google account and I
got booted from the call. I much prefer
this human way of doing things and like
letting people be in Slack and have the
conversation, not just like watching
names drop from the list as I've heard
so many stories about. Jack's doing this
very responsibly. To those of you
leaving, I'm grateful for you and I'm
sorry to put you through this. You built
what the company is today. That's a fact
I'll honor forever. This decision is not
a reflection of what you contributed.
You will be a great contributor to any
organization going forward. To those
staying, I made this decision and I'll
own it. What I'm asking of you is to
build with me. This is a big deal. I
know a lot of people who have like
survivor guilt when they survive these
types of layoffs and feel as though like
they might have done something wrong or
they're somehow to blame for this and
they're not there with their peers that
they're watching drop out. Jack owning
this is huge rather than saying like we
had to or the shareholders made us or
any of those things. Jack's saying, "No,
I chose to do this. This is mine. Blame
me. I'm the one who is taking this hit."
That I have a lot of respect for Jack.
Even I didn't have the balls to do that
when I had to do the layoffs where I let
go a majority of my team a few years
ago. I said that I screwed up hiring
them, but I didn't take the ownership of
the the dropping them the same way here.
I I already like Jack a lot as a leader,
but this this put him above and beyond
for me. We're going to build this
company with intelligence at the core of
everything we do, how we work, how we
create, how we serve our customers. Our
customers will feel the shift, too, and
we're going to help them navigate it
towards a future where they can build
their own features directly composed of
our capabilities and serve through our
interfaces. That's what I'm focused on
now. Expect a note from me tomorrow.
Great note. I have a lot of things I
want to talk about here. The first part
I want to talk about here is the smaller
and flatter teams bit. It is very clear
that this is where things are going. Big
teams don't move faster. I've talked
about this for a long time. Hopefully
y'all have heard of the mythical man
month. The classic story where adding
more people makes the project take more
time, not less. That's a real problem in
software. And the problem just got
worse.
like significantly worse. We have so
many PRs open on basically any of our
surfaces. Like in T3 code alone, we have
13 PRs that Julius has opened that I
haven't had any chance to go look at or
test anything in. More people does not
mean more review getting done. It means
more PRs and more orchestration to make
sure people don't step on each other's
toes and that things don't break in
egregious ways. More people slows down
the iteration here. The workflow Julius
and I have taken for T3 code is
effectively on any given day or any
given time, we choose who owns Maine and
who doesn't. And the person who owns
Maine just shifts to Maine all day and
the other person does other [__] That's
such a huge shift in how we build and
it's letting us out build open AI with
their equivalent with the codeex app,
which is a team of significantly more
people. I know it's at least 20 because
I met a bunch of them. The fact that
Jill and I can ship at a similar speed
with just us two taking turns on the
project shows just how much the smaller
focus team matters here. Lines of code
are no longer the bottleneck. This is a
absurd shift in how everything in our
industry works. This is hard to put into
words just how much [__] has changed as
a result. This is the equivalent of
software no longer being distributed on
discs, but probably bigger. I don't even
have a gut feel for how much code is in
any given project. Let's see what we
have in lawn. So lawn is about 16k lines
of code, 15k or typescript. T3 chat's
nearing 100,000 lines of code. T3 code,
which again vibe coded by Julius and me,
already at 52,581
lines of code. In just like 2 to 3
weeks, T3 code is already half the size
of T3 chat. Lines of code doesn't matter
anymore. Lines of code effectively are
free now. Tests matter. Tests matter a
lot. And there's a whole dedicated video
for that in the near future, but uh
lines of code don't. And the only thing
morege helps with is lines of code.
Historically, more engineers meant more
code. That was how we would hire. When
we had all of the things we knew we
needed to do, we had a road map of
things we had to add to the product and
we just didn't have the manpower to
write all the code for it. That's when
we would start hiring up teams. Things
were so crazy that companies would hire
great engineers just to keep other
companies from getting them, even if
they didn't have work for them to do.
That was a real thing that used to
happen in the early fang days between
Amazon, Google, Microsoft, and others.
Trying to keep the best engineers away
from the other companies. Now that's
changed. Not because more engineers
doesn't mean more lines of code, but the
process for how you deal with the code
matters a lot more. Now there's a
pipeline of how features ship. You know
what? We're going to do this downwards
where at the top there is user problem,
whatever the issue is that the user has.
At the bottom is shipped solution. And
there are always steps along the way
here. I just wrote all the steps quick
because it's easier that way. You
describe the problem, identify a
solution, scope and assign the work,
write the code, review the code, test
the code, plan the release, and then do
the release. Generally speaking, more
engineers helps here and here. Maybe
there's like two dimensions to this
column though. There's how much is this
happening and how long does it take for
any one particular piece of work? Like
500 problems that users have, you'll be
lucky to clearly describe a hundred of
them. You'll be even luckier to identify
solutions to 50 of them. You'll
eventually scope out an assign work for
15 of them. You'll actually get people
to write code for five of them. And then
from here down, things tend to stay
pretty consistent. Like by the time
people are writing code, since the code
is so expensive, the majority of the
code people write at a company where
they're paid to gets through everything
else till it eventually comes out. This
part was too expensive to be lossy. We
put a lot of work from the top down to
refine the things that made it to ENGE
because if it made it to ENGE and wasn't
actually worth it, you just wasted a
shitload of time. Now you can literally
take the user problem, paste the
screenshot into the agent, and skip all
the way down to here. That's insane.
That changes [__] everything. If I
can take a user problem, just take a
screenshot of them tweeting at me, paste
it into cloud code, and get the bug
fixed, this whole pipeline has been
destroyed. and the stronghold we had
here where everything from here down was
too expensive to [__] up and also too
high skill to easily staff up in. So if
you wanted to increase the amount of
work getting done, you had to hire more
people to do the code writing. That's
just over now. The person who scopes and
assigns the work can do the writing now
by kicking it off to an AI. And if you
help them scale up a bit in how they
spec out the work, the AI can get better
at writing it. I would argue that the
role of devs is shifting down here where
we'll do more and more of the review.
It's that's even slipping due to all the
AI review tools and now we're stuck
doing the testing and manually verifying
the stuff. There's a real chance that
somewhere on this computer I have a
groundbreaking developer experience
sitting there because I have dozens of
work trees trying out theories that I
forget about before I ever test them.
There are multiple projects on this
machine that I'm very excited about that
I spun up terminals to go build on
forever ago that I then had to reboot
and I forgot where they are and haven't
even bothered to go double check. Like
that's insane that there is work on my
computer that might actually be really
useful to me and others that I haven't
even checked yet because the checking is
the expensive part. Now, are you ready
for the harshest reality check here?
Most engineers are really bad at this.
Even like the best engineers I know are
atrocious at QA. I cannot tell you how
many times I got to work with like top
100 in the world type engineers. They
ship something that looked really good,
seemed really good, made a lot of sense,
was well aligned with the goal of the
project and I try and it just doesn't
[__] work at all. And that's not even
just like writing unit tests, writing
integration tests or anything like that.
It's using the [__] thing. Most
engineers are terrible at that. And
historically that's been okay because
there was such a desperation to fill the
hole that was writing code that we would
do anything for it. And now that's over.
Another way to think of this is as a
funnel. At the top we have like every
single thing that's gone wrong in our
product for every user. And then all the
way to the bottom here we have shipped
stuff. So has to make it all the way to
the bottom not fall out of the funnel
along the way. And each step along here
required some level of refinement. So
describe problem, write code, you get
the idea. The funnel, we've all seen a
funnel like this before. This is just
kind of what reality looks like, at
least looked like. As you go further and
further down, the number of things left
would decrease. And the really [__]
strange thing that is going on right now
is that this looks like this now. There
is no longer a funnel at the line that
we own as devs. That's over. That is a
very different world we live in where if
you've gotten to the point where you can
describe the work as tickets, you've
gotten to the point where the work can
be completed for the vast majority of
development work the vast majority of
the time. The majority of apps are just
shitty crud apps that need small one-off
bug fixes and features done constantly.
And for almost all work, things just
shifted fundamentally. And if you have
had this realization, you know that this
step here, writing the code is no longer
the edge. That having enough engineers
is your win. That like realistically
speaking, I could not have competed with
Frame.io 2 years ago. It would have been
way too much work for me and my team to
build and maintain, especially all the
integrations across all the different
platforms. Like if it turned out that
product could do well and I wanted to go
build the integrations for things like
Premiere Pro and Final Cut and other
editors, that type of thing just wasn't
worth it before. And suddenly it
absolutely is. If anything, having the
smaller team puts me at an advantage.
Since Frame.io is part of Adobe and has
a giant team, every change requires
touching lots of different teams things
and getting all of them to approve. If
you have more engineers, there are more
people that have to give you a thumbs up
before you're allowed to ship the thing.
So if writing code is free now let's
take this diagram because this is what a
lot of companies are about to look like.
So the writing code step is now flat. So
we now have the straight lines there.
But with the devs having to approve
things it's going to look like this.
It's going to be an even steeper
gradient making it even harder to
actually ship the things that have been
made. And this is going to piss off
everyone. Every product manager, every
exec, every person at a company that
knows anything about what their
competition is doing is going to look at
this. They're going to experience this.
They're going to feel this and they're
going to realize, wait, writing code
just got so much cheaper. Everything we
spec gets written. Why is none of this
shipping? And more than anything here, I
am saying this part out of experience
because we had this happen, too. We had
users report problems in T3 chat. We
clearly described what the problem was.
We came up with a solution. We started
planning out that work. We would not
necessarily always make tickets. We
don't always use linear for things.
Sometimes we just use notion and write
out what we want to do. Sometimes we
just message each other on Discord. We
would get pretty far in and then
eventually when an engine had the time
they would go write the code. Then we
just started kicking those things off in
the background and ended up with
hundreds of PRs just kind of sitting
there not shipping because everything
else didn't get easier. And having more
people that have to approve of things
made it even less likely to ship. So we
had to make changes to our process. We
had to decide how much do we actually
care about the thoroughess of the review
of our code. We had to decide what
cadence do we want to ship at? What do
we want our rollback systems to look
like when we do break things? How do we
get more prepared for the way our
workflows are shifting here? And that's
also why we did the launch week a few
weeks ago because we wanted to get all
this stuff out. In order to do that, we
needed different process, different
deadlines, different incentives. I had
to rethink everything below the writing
code part in order for us to actually
ship the things that were being
generated. And that's a lot harder when
you have a big team. Big teams are kind
of like aircraft carriers where they can
ship a ton of stuff at once, insane
distances in relatively absurd speeds.
But if they have to change course, if
they have to change direction, it takes
days for them to just do a turn because
the ship has so much inertia that
shifting becomes n impossible. But if
you have a small team, that type of
shifting becomes much easier. When
individual things have a person who owns
them instead of a team who owns them and
that person owns more and more, things
get easier. Like if T3 code had
different parts of the codebase that
different people owned and we wanted to
do a big feature change, getting that
approved is going to suck. But if we
take turns owning it and one person can
come in and change a bunch of [__] in
one day and the next day someone else
can come in and change a bunch of [__]
then we can ship fast. And all of our
process is built for a world where the
only really expensive part was writing
code. Writing code went from the most
expensive to the cheapest part of this
process. Everything is going to change
as a result. I don't know what that's
going to look like. I'm not going to sit
here and tell you that our jobs are
going away or that we're totally fine. I
don't know yet. I don't know what the
world looks like after code becomes so
cheap it's nearly free. I know a lot of
the things that are valuable now like
turning user problems into clear concise
plans, making sure written code is ready
to ship, having good methods and good
alerting systems to do automatic roll
backs, and having good safety nets in
place for when things do go wrong,
writing really thorough tests, and doing
really thorough QA. All of these things
are more valuable now than ever, and
developers hate all of them. The average
developer is going to have a really
rough time. This isn't because vibe
coding isn't fun. To be clear, I've seen
a lot of people saying they missed the
craft. I don't think they do. I
genuinely believe they're wrong. I think
if you were to rank all the stuff that
we do in a given day as a developer,
writing code is one of the more fun
ones, reviewing code is one of the less
fun ones. So, if we have shifted
everything so that we're writing code
way less, and now we're reviewing code
way more. Yeah, that's going to feel
worse. Not because writing code was the
fun part and we lost it. Just because we
have shifted meaningfully in where our
interests are and where our time is
spent. Our time is now spent much more
so dealing with the consequences of our
code because the code got so much easier
to put out. But if you can flip that in
your head a bit, it becomes really
empowering. I personally have never
enjoyed writing code more. Yeah, I'm not
writing the code myself, but there's
something so rewarding about cracking
the code, so to speak, finding the right
combination of description of the
problem, technologies that the agents
can use, harnesses that can be steered
in a way to build in the right
direction, ending in a product that's
actually useful. I've never built more.
I have so many projects that I'm working
on right now, and I'm going to actually
ship a bunch of them. I'm so hyped. But
you have to change your mindset a ton
for that. And not just you and me as
devs, the people running these companies
and paying us our salaries, too. That's
a big deal. And that's where the next
paragraph in the statement comes in.
Jack had two options. Cut gradually over
months or years as the shift plays out,
or be honest about where they are and
act on it. Now, this is something I
really like about the way he chose to do
this. It is clear that this is where
things are going. that having too many
people in the pipeline approving things
is going to make you slower, not faster.
That the benefit of having a lot of
engineers being a lot more code is no
longer that valuable at all. So they
could slowly realize this and have
individual teams and orgs realize this
and every few months lay off 5 to 10% of
people and never actually see the
benefits. Because if your team goes from
10 people to eight people, your process
isn't going to change much. You're just
going to move around assignments. But if
your team goes from 10 people to two
people, you're going to start rethinking
[__] That's that's what he's going for
here. And I have a lot of respect for
the way he did it because the
alternatives just aren't going to move
that fast. Let's use GitHub as an
example. GitHub's a relatively big
organization. If a new AI model drops,
there's an approval process that has to
be gone through before they can ship
that in Copilot. When Gemini 3.1 Pro
came out, they managed to sneak it in
relatively quickly into Cop-lot. I was
impressed that they actually got this
out this fast. You could use Gemini 3.1
Pro in the Copilot extension thing built
into VS Code. I was trying to find a way
to use Gemini 3.1 Pro reliably cuz there
were issues with provisioning for it.
Even the official Gemini CLI could not
use it because again, Google's a massive
company. Getting things updated is
nearly impossible there. Microsoft is
similar. Somebody told me that even the
co-pilot CLI has 3.1 Pro. They lied. I
just moved from the C-pilot CLI to
Gemini because it didn't have it. I
tagged Burke, who's one of the higher up
people working on VS Code and Copilot
stuff at Microsoft, asking for help. He
said it should be there for you. Tagged
in two additional people who work on the
CLI to help saying what tier I'm on. How
can we make sure it's there for him day
zero? Unfortunately, this model is only
available in VS Code and not in the
Copilot CLI. We are working on it, but
not an easy thing. I'm not trying to
call out Evan here. I'm not trying to
shame any employees or anything here. I
just need us to have an honest moment.
What the [__] do you mean it's not an
easy thing? What the [__] does that even
mean? I know what it means. It means the
company's too big. It means that there
are 10erson teams when there should be a
one person managing the three other
projects. Not only is this addition one
prompt away, it's one line of [__]
code. I hate to put it this way, but
Jack's ahead of them right now. There's
a very real future coming soon where the
entire team is laid off and replaced
with two people that can submit the
right prompt to prevent [__] like this
from happening. This is a very real case
where more people is making the thing
less likely to ship. And this is just
one I encountered a few days ago. There
are hundreds of these every [__] day
at every [__] company. I promise. And
to be even harsher with this, the
companies that don't make this change
are going to get absolutely lapped by
the ones that do. My little threeperson
dev team should not be able to out ship
OpenAI on web with chatgpt in the
desktop app with codeex app versus T3
code. Just wait. We're going to ship so
much faster once we drop. I want to make
sure that we're at feature parody for
the core things before we launch and
then we're going to way outpace them.
The fact that we're now out shipping
frame.io. I'm sorry. And this is all
just us three hopping between [__] The
shape of teams has to change if these
big companies want to maintain pace with
the smaller ones. And to be more blunt,
most places have not figured this out
yet. For every company like Block that
realiz this is where we're going and has
made this change, there's 10 that
haven't, and they're going to be
screwed. The few companies that don't do
this should be looked at very closely by
you as opportunity. Any company that
hasn't entirely rethought their
engineering or by the end of this year
is a company you should build an
alternative to because you will ship
faster than them. The structure of
companies that worked last year is a
structure that puts them behind this
year. You got to take the opportunity.
There is so much room up for grabs right
now. This is arguably comparable to the
internet where like Amazon crushed
Barnes & Noble and then crushed
everyone. I think we are at that moment
again. And that means our jobs at
existing industries are not sacred like
they used to be. If your company
currently has more engineers than they
had last year, there's a very high
chance there will be layoffs by the end
of the year. Everything is changing.
Block is just the start here. We're at
the beginning of the end. I don't know
what is ending and I don't know what
it'll be replaced with. I just want to
make sure I raise the alarm bells cuz I
know other creators just make memes
about how we're like we're 36 months
into 6 months until NG is dead. Being
paid to type in lines of code is over.
Any place that hasn't realized that is
just behind now. And that includes the
major labs, too. To be fully clear. I'm
very thankful to be at a threeperson
startup and maintaining about 15 people
across all of my teams instead of one of
these 10,000 plus person companies that
needs to rethink everything. Yeah, I
don't got any wisdom here. I just I want
to make sure we are being realistic
about where shit's going. And I'm really
not interested in the takes of the
unemployed and people who aren't in
industry and aren't watching this as it
changes. I'm telling you guys this from
the ground floor. I'm telling you this
is somebody who spends a lot of time
talking to startups and big businesses
with all of the teams building all of
these things and how clear it is which
ones understand and which ones don't and
how [__] the ones who don't understand
currently are. If your company isn't
forcing you to adopt tools like cloud
code, codeex, cursor, and other things
like that, they're already doomed and
you should start hunting. Like it, we
are there. Shout out to Jack for pushing
me over the line here and making it even
more obvious where things have gotten.
And to all the devs in my audience,
start talking to your users more. Start
talking to your designers, your product
team more. Start getting more involved
in the release process. Start getting
more involved in the systems that allow
these things to work. and start trying
to automate your own job because through
the automation of your work, you will
find everything around it and you'll be
able to do more and more of that. Have
more agency. Yes, this is the one thing
the agents will never have. It's silly
that agents won't have agency, but they
won't. They won't have the initiative.
They won't have the ownership. They
won't have the focus, so to speak. They
have to be given all of those things.
And as long as you can provide that for
them and as long as you have enough
understanding to build the right
environment for it, as long as you use
the product enough to identify the
problems when it doesn't do things
right, as long as you're just [__]
locked in enough, you will turn this
into a win. But the reality is that most
devs won't do that. Not only are most
devs working on product that they don't
use, they don't even like their users.
They don't even know their users. I've
talked to so many devs that can't even
name one of their customers. It's
hilarious. And those people are [__]
If the agent knows more about your
customers than you do, you don't have a
job anymore. Get on it. I have no idea
how this video is going to feel or what
this sentiment's going to be. I just I'm
going through it with this myself even.
It's just that so much is changing,
guys. I don't think anyone even I fully
comprehend how much this is happening.
But when I look at a product that I've
used for years that I could rebuild in
two weeks and then I check Twitter and
see one of my favorite CEOs laying off
half their company due to the same
things I'm working on on the side. I
can't just sit here and pretend
everything's going to be the same. We
all just have different slightly jobs in
the dev. No, everything is changing and
we need to be realistic about it. We're
not in the middle. We're at the end.
We're at the end of something. I don't
know what it is yet, but I want to make
sure we all know that at the very least
so that we can be prepared for whatever
ends up being next. Let me know how
y'all feel. Am I going insane or is this
actually change happening now?